Former Lib Dem Leader and one-time deputy PM Nick Clegg lost his Sheffield Hallam seat to Labour's Jared O'MaraFormer SNP leader and former first minister of Scotland Alex Salmond was unseated in Gordon by the Conservatives' Colin Clark on swing of 20%, and the SNP's Westminster leader Angus Robertson also lost to Tory Douglas Ross.The Cult of Curtice: Mild-mannered number-cruncher Professor John Curtice is a social media celebrity on a tense election night.When the general election exit poll was revealed at 10pm, the pound immediately dropped by 2% as investors took a position that a hung parliament was a possible outcome of the general election.For more results, click hereThe conversations have started not just about whether the Tories will be able to form a government, but whether or not Theresa May can stay in her job.BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg: This is the third post-war snap election called unexpectedly before a party's term of office had come to an end.  On the two previous occasions in 1970 and February 1974 the PM and the party lost office. While there is no other conceivable administration in the new parliament other than a Conservative-led one, it remains to be seen whether the PM will retain her position. However, so long as the Conservatives can reach an accommodation with the DUP they will have a working majority in the House of Commons.  Eight Conservative ministers were among those who lost out - Jane Ellison, Gavin Barwell, Rob Wilson, Ben Gummer, James Wharton, Nicola Blackwood, Simon Kirby and Edward Timpson.While UKIP's vote share is down, it is still all the rage on social media where the party has been trending all night.Philip Sim, BBC Scotland political reporter: If Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have had a particularly good night, Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, certainly has. The Scottish Tories have more than doubled their returns in some places where the party was previously unelectable. Read more from PhilipFollow the latest news at it happens on our live page Big scalpsWhy would that cause the currency to decline? Because a hung parliament means that the government's direction of travel would be less certain. Read more from KamalBBC economics editor Kamal Ahmed:See more images from the night hereJohn Curtice, Professor of Politics at the University of StrathclydeThere is no one prevailing mood inside the Tory party. As I write, Mrs May is holed up with her advisers inside Tory HQ. But a former minister Anna Soubry has called for her to "consider her position" - political code for calling for her to resign. Read more from LauraThe hashtag #HungParliament shot to the top of Twitter's list of top UK trends after the general election exit poll predicted that the Conservatives would lose their overall majority. More than 70,000 messages were posted in under an hour. Read more hereSorry, your browser cannot display this content.