Russia, Syria's main ally, had threatened military retaliation if any Russian forces had been hit.Syria has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons.Last year some 59 missiles were fired. This time a little over double that number were used. At a Pentagon briefing shortly after Mr Trump's announcement, General Joseph Dunford listed three targets that had been struck:The BBC's Kevin Connolly in Moscow said President Putin had articulated Russian anger, but Moscow's claim that none of its own military assets were threatened may suggest that the threat of escalation through some sort of Russian retaliation has now been substantially reduced.He also said the scale of the strikes was about "double" what was launched in April 2017 after a chemical attack on the town of Khan Sheikhoun that killed more than 80 people. The international Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) had dispatched a fact-finding team to the site of the alleged attack in Douma and was set to start work on Saturday. The mission will still go ahead, said the OPCW after the strikes. But she also said the strikes were not about "regime change"."The American, French and British aggression against Syria will fail," it said.In his speech, President Trump said Mr Assad had committed "the crimes of a monster". French President Emmanuel Macron also confirmed his country's participation in the operation.Last year's US strike failed to change his behaviour. This time, will it be any different?Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expressed his nation's support for the strikes.This attack was more significant than the US strike against a Syrian air base a little over a year ago, but at first sight seems more limited than President Trump's rhetoric may have suggested. "The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread, and use of chemical weapons," he said.Sana, Syria's official state news agency, called the Western action "a flagrant violation of international law"."I urge all member states to show restraint in these dangerous circumstances."Prime Minister Theresa May said there was "no practicable alternative to the use of force". But the fundamental questions remain. Will President Assad be deterred? "Dozens of men, women and children were massacred with chemical weapons," he said of the Douma incident a week ago - adding that "the red line had been crossed".German Chancellor Angela Merkel - who had ruled out joining the military action - said she supported the strikes as "necessary and appropriate".  Care was taken, say the Americans, to avoid both Syrian and "foreign" - for that read Russian - casualties.  Jonathan Marcus, BBC defence correspondent Nato said it would hold a special meeting on Saturday, where the US, UK and France would brief other member states. There were initial reports that three civilians had been injured in Homs."The nations of Britain, France, and the United States of America have marshalled their righteous power against barbarism and brutality," US President Donald Trump said in an address from the White House at about 21:00 local time (01:00 GMT).UK-based monitoring group the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights suggested more targets than the three listed by the Pentagon had been hit.The move is a response to a suspected chemical attack on the town of Douma last week which killed dozens.But Secretary Mattis said that "right now, this is a one-time shot".In his earlier address, President Trump had said: "We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents."US Secretary of Defence James Mattis told journalists there were no reports of US losses in the operation.Reaction to the strikes was mixed among the international community.US Senator John McCain applauded Mr Trump for taking military action. The leading Republican and former prisoner-of-war, who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee, is often critical of the president.Reuters news agency cites a pro-Assad militia commander saying other locations were hit, including various sites close to Damascus: a military base in the Dimas area; army depots in the eastern Qalamoun; the Kiswah area, where Iran is believed to have been building a base; and a site in the Qasyoun hills, plus a research centre in Masyaf, further north. These reports are unverified.Other US politicians argued that President Trump should come before Congress and receive authorisation for the use of military force. She later added that while the assessment of the strikes' results was ongoing, she was confident of their success. Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg tweeted support for the strikes, saying those who use chemical weapons "must be held accountable".Gen Dunford said the US had communicated with Russia ahead of the strikes through the normal procedures of their "deconfliction" hotline, which is used to prevent accidental clashes in a war zone with multiple international players. There had been concerns that if the US strike had hit Russian military personnel on the ground, it would further escalate tension. According to a Russian defence ministry statement, "preliminary information" said there had been no casualties among the Syrian army or civilians. Russia said Syria had shot down 71 of 103 missiles fired.Meanwhile, United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres warned UN members of their responsibilities.Russian President Vladimir Putin said he condemned the Western strikes "in the most serious way".The strikes are over for now, but there was a clear warning that if the Assad regime resorts to chemical weapons again, then further strikes may well follow.President Putin called them "an act of aggression".The Syrian presidency has tweeted a short video of Bashar al-Assad walking into his office at 09:00 local time with the caption: "Morning of steadfastness".I support the actions by the US, UK and France against the #Syrian regime's chemical weapons facilities and capabilities. #NATO considers the use of chemical weapons unacceptable. Those responsible must be held accountable. https://t.co/HPQ4YpTT7YThe wave of strikes is the most significant attack against President Bashar al-Assad's government by Western powers in seven years of Syria's civil war."There's an obligation, particularly when dealing with matters of peace and security, to act consistently with the Charter of the United Nations and with international law in general," he said.Eight Storm Shadow cruise missiles were fired by the jets.According to the UK Ministry of Defence, strikes carried out by four RAF Tornado jets hit one of the targets mentioned by the Pentagon - a military site near the city of Homs which is believed to have housed precursor materials for chemical weapons.As a Purple Heart Vietnam veteran, I put my life on the line for this country. Sad to hear @realDonaldTrump has chosen to bomb #Syria.  America is on the brink of WWIII, have no clear agenda and put our military personnel lives at risk. #Damascus #PeaceForSyria