A tweet from Mr Trump last week about US missile strikes on Syria had read: "Get ready, Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and 'smart'. You shouldn't be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!"Russia in turn blamed other parties of trying to block their efforts to make a create a new way of investigating such chemical weapons claims. Russia says the attack in Douma was staged, accusing the UK of orchestrating it. Earlier this month, Mr Trump declared that the US would "be coming out of Syria very soon".On Saturday, joint US, UK and French strikes targeted Syrian government sites in response to an alleged chemical weapons attack.The Russians said 71 missiles were shot down by Syrian systems.The US said 105 missiles were launched and it believed none were intercepted by Syrian defences. It said Syria's chemical weapons programme had been set back years.The French president appears to have struck up a strong relationship with his US counterpart and this month will be afforded the first formal White House state visit of the Trump presidency.The Russians say there is no trace of any chemicals and questioned why the allies carried out strikes before the inspectors had reported.By Hugh Schofield, Paris correspondent for BBC NewsPresident Putin spoke to Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani by phone on Sunday, telling him that any new Western strikes on Syria would spark "international chaos".The French parliament will be holding an urgent debate on the country's military action at 17:00 local time (15:00 GMT). Inspectors from the independent OPCW are now in the country.No-one in France can remember watching a presidential interview quite like this.  Out went deference, journalistic fawning and the patsy questions. In came two attack hounds of the press, Jean-Jacques Bourdin and Edwy Plenel - both men bent, it seemed, on a proper slug-out with the head of state.  Syria is also high on the agenda of an EU foreign ministers' meeting taking place in Luxembourg. "They have not used chlorine themselves but they have methodically built the international community's inability to act through diplomatic channels to stop the use of chemical weapons," he said.In telephone calls with Mr Trump, he also said he "persuaded him that we needed to limit the strikes to chemical weapons [sites], after things got a little carried away over tweets".The US has about 2,000 personnel on the ground in eastern Syria supporting an alliance of Kurdish and Arab militias called the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF).Mr Macron said he also persuaded Mr Trump to keep the strikes limited.The irony is that far from inconveniencing Mr Macron, this new aggression suits him down to the ground. In the heat of debate, he performs well. He knows his stuff. Speaking in a live TV interview, during which he was grilled on several subjects, Mr Macron said: "Ten days ago, President Trump was saying 'the United States should withdraw from Syria'. We convinced him it was necessary to stay for the long term."The other two were suspected chemical weapons facilities at Him Shinshar near Homs.Mr Macron insisted the Western allies had "complete international legitimacy to act" in Syria. He said the allies had clear proof there had been a chemical attack in the town of Douma near Damascus on 7 April and that the Syrian government was responsible. Syria vehemently denies this.The pair, who are reported to have a friendly relationship, spoke several times in the days before the military action was taken.Announcing the strikes in an address to the nation on Friday evening in Washington, Mr Trump insisted: "America does not seek an indefinite presence in Syria - under no circumstances." Mr Macron said he still wanted dialogue with all parties, including Russia, to try to find a political solution and would go ahead with a planned trip to Moscow next month.Western allies believe the claimed attack killed dozens of people with the use of chlorine gas and possibly Sarin.And the first dividend from a most unlikely presidential friendship.And on Syria, he made the strongest case yet for his policy - much-criticised - of sticking close to Donald Trump. If it was indeed Emmanuel Macron who talked Trump into "re-engaging" with Syria after the suspected chemical attack,  then that is an enormous success for France.Ms Haley also ruled out any direct talks with Mr Assad.But according to British diplomats at an urgent meeting in the OPCW headquarters in The Hague, the organisation's director says his experts are still waiting for Syria and Russia to grant them access to the alleged attack site in Douma. The future of the Syrian war:Three sites. Firstly, the Barzeh complex, which the US says is a centre for development, production and testing of chemical and biological weapons, although Syria denies this.British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said no further strikes were planned, but that this would be reassessed if more chemical attacks took place.A sign of the style: not once did the journalists call Emmanuel Macron "Monsieur le President," which would be the norm on such occasions. Every time they wanted to address him, they said simply: "Emmanuel Macron."This would be the second tranche of sanctions against Russian firms in a month, partly related to Russia's support for Syria.Mr Macron said he told Russian President Vladimir Putin directly that Russia - which backs the Syrian government militarily - was complicit.MPs in the UK parliament are also due to question PM Theresa May on the air strikes. The opposition believes Mrs May should have consulted parliament before launching them. After Mr Macron's comments, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said: "The US mission has not changed - the president has been clear that he wants US forces to come home as quickly as possible". The OPCW will not seek to establish, or publicly announce, who was responsible for the attack. Inspectors from the independent Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) are in Syria to inspect the site of the alleged chemical attack, but British diplomats said Syria and Russia had not yet allowed the inspectors to visit the site.But she added that the US was "determined to completely crush" the Islamic State group and prevent its return.Catch up on the strikes:Speaking on TV, US envoy to the UN Nikki Haley said new sanctions would be announced on Monday against Russian companies with links to President Assad.The wave of strikes had represented the most significant attack against President Bashar al-Assad's government by Western powers in seven years of Syria's civil war.At the meeting, UK ambassador to the Netherlands Peter Wilson accused Russia of trying to undermine all OPCW investigations into alleged chemical weapons use by Syrian government troops.