Breaking: Goldman Sachs banker David Schwimmer named ceo of London Stock ExchangeSadly, not this David Schwimmer... pic.twitter.com/vwbt2V7MwhYou may also like:Meanwhile, historian and television presenter Guy Walters went searching for Friends co-stars' namesakes on social media sites including LinkedIn. Phew. #DavidSchwimmer trending on Twitter but Ross from Friends is still alive.The other David Schwimmer spent 20 years at investment bank Goldman Sachs. He will replace Xavier Rolet, who quit last November following a boardroom row.I'm sure David schwimmer of London stock exchange has heard all the jokes about being from friends before but has David schwimmer from friends heard jokes about being from the London stock exchange ?Twitter didn't waste any time to reacting the stock exchange announcement and was immediately flooded with Friends in-jokes and gifs. Even from business journalists.David Schwimmer may be the new head of the London Stock Exchange Group, but Jennifer Aniston has been the Senior HR Manager at Samsung Electronics for over eight years. https://t.co/LnMHErPXqVOne mistaken person claimed he almost had a heart attack after seeing Schwimmer trending on Twitter. To his relief, it turned out the news was "just about a London stockbroker."Well, it is a case of namesake confusion. It is the experienced banker, not the guy who played Ross Geller in the US sitcom Friends, who got the job. Toni H asked the pertinent question. As Michael Finnie put it: "Imagine being in charge of the London Stock Exchange and still not being *The* David Schwimmer."David Schwimmer will take up his new role on 1 August. People on Twitter had just one question - is it the David Schwimmer of Friends fame who has had a sudden career change and found himself a lucrative job in the City?And Steve Bannon and George Papadopoulous have each spent a lot of time on Twitter saying they did not work for Donald Trump after people who shared thier names made headlines over their roles with the US president's team.And Bloomberg journalist Lionel Laurent perhaps feels it is not his day (his month, or even his year).While John Lewis, not the department store chain, ended up with a series of personalised gifts after dealing with customers' complaints, Joe Hart the comedian took a lot of criticism aimed at the England goalkeeper.Similarly, other Twitter accounts who happen to share a name with well-known or notorious figures have had their share of attention, positive and negative.There are already 15 Friends related gifs memes and jokes in my timeline after David Schwimmer is named head of LSE. It's going to be a long day.