Terms and conditionsIn other retail developments:If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can
                        contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as
                        you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published.
                        When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others,
                        take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.The CVA needs approval from creditors, which it will seek at a meeting on 26 April, and it will then hold a meeting with shareholders to ask for their approval on 30 April. Wilf Walsh, Carpetright chief executive, said: "These tough but necessary actions will enable us to address the burden of a legacy UK property estate consisting of too many poorly located stores on unsustainable rents and are essential if we are to restore our profitability and deliver a successful turnaround."Analysis: Kevin Peachey, BBC personal finance reporterThat is why the furniture store sales seem never to end, and why this sector is trying to find new ways to attract customers.The BBC recently revealed that homeowners are moving house half as often as they did before the financial crisis. Now, figures from surveyors have shown 12 consecutive months of falling demand from property buyers, with little sign of a turnaround.The company said it would raise 60m through a placing of new shares, which would raise money to cut debt and pay for the restructuring plan. After initially falling by almost a quarter, shares in Carpetright were down 4.4% at 40.1p in morning trading.Carpetright, which has more than 400 UK shops, has been struggling with underperforming outlets which have made its rental costs harder to shoulder.The plight of Carpetright is not only a story of the struggling High Street, but also a tale of what is going on in the streets and avenues nearby.Retailers are being pummelled as fewer people are moving home, which means lower demand for new flooring. Consumers are also having to tighten their belts as inflation has outstripped wage growth.Many retailers are also struggling to adjust to the shift from in-store shopping to buying goods online.The chain is planning a company voluntary arrangement (CVA) that will allow it to shut the worst-performing stores and ask for rent concessions on another 113 sites.Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:The retailer recently started talks with lenders to ensure it does not breach the terms of its bank loans.There have been similar, recent CVA arrangements at fashion retailer New Look and restaurant chains Jamie's Italian, Prezzo and Byron. It is the latest in a long list of businesses to run into trouble. Do you work for Carpetright? Will your store be affected?  Share your views and experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.So, with fewer people moving in to a new place, there is less demand for new fittings such as carpets and curtains. The squeeze on household finances means many of those staying put are delaying their plans to redecorate.As part of its announcement on Thursday, it also said it had identified a "technical breach" in its borrowing agreement.The company gave a profit warning at the beginning of March. It added that trading conditions had remained difficult since then, but that it still expected to make only a small underlying pre-tax loss for the year.