"There's never been a better time to be an artist in the world," says Ashley Longshore. Christie's has recently worked with Artsy on some online auctions, and Mr Sands thinks such collaborations will become more common."Every industry is leveraging technology to run their business better. We need to embrace new technology. Consumers are much more comfortable buying online, so why not art?"For the auction house Christie's, which was founded 250 years ago, embracing new technology has been an interesting journey."My dream is a world full of wealthy artists.""Seeing a piece of art in the flesh - nothing quite beats it."Artsy co-founder Sebastian Cwilich certainly thinks the traditional model of selling art at galleries and auction houses is changing."We test and learn with online all the time," says chief marketing officer Marc Sands."With a gallery you never know who your clients are. I'm creating something tangible - I'm a business person, I want to create money from it. Why wouldn't I use every single avenue I can?"At the beginning we thought no-one would spend a lot online. Five years ago the average sale online was $2,300, now it's just under $8,000.""They're a little bit of competition," he says. "Their user base is a bit cooler. They're the new kids on the block so they're quite interesting to work with."It's a strategy that has worked well. She has sold multiple works online, including one for $50,000 (35,000). Paying subscribers get access to limited-edition works as well. But for emerging artists like Emily Ursa, it can feel difficult to get noticed.His gallery typically sells works for 5,000-20,000, and Mr Barratt believes that the more expensive the painting the more reluctant customers are to buy online."Things lose their value on social media and become very throwaway, so it's hard to stand out." Having a good online and social media presence certainly allows galleries, auction houses and artists to access a wider customer base and to connect with new buyers. Does he see online-only art platforms, such as Artsy and Artfinder, as a threat?"When you buy through a gallery you're investing 50% in the middle man - it screws up the pricing of art. I want artists to see themselves as entrepreneurs - 'artpreneurs' - who have control over what they're putting out," she says."It gives it a sense of importance... it's a whole experience, it changes the value of the work."But technology is changing the way we interact with, buy, and sell art. And artists are adapting their creative processes to suit a changing landscape."The notion that you can open a location to sell your art and hope that the right people just walk through the door is almost quaint," he says.Old masters, paintings created before about 1800, have an older buying demographic "so that market doesn't lend itself well to being sold online", he says.In contrast, global auction sales fell 19% over the same period."Above a certain price people want to come in and see the art. On a computer, it just doesn't come across the same way. You want to find out more about it," he says. Iain Barratt, owner of the Catto Gallery in London, recognises that an online presence is important, but is sceptical that social media is the answer to increased sales.At a gallery exhibition customers can see the work that's gone in to a painting up close, she says.Online art sales are growing worldwide. Online sales reached an estimated $3.75bn in 2016, up 15% from 2015. This represents an 8.4% share of the overall art market, up from 7.4% the year before, according to the 2017 report on the online art market from insurers Hiscox."Social media is an amazing platform for so many," she says, "but you have to beware because you're one of thousands and thousands. "We've had a few indirect sales on social media, but nothing to speak of really."The US artist's paintings can be found hanging in the homes of Hollywood celebrities such as Salma Hayek, Penelope Cruz and Blake Lively.In 2017, a third of Christie's new buyers came via the web and online sales totalled 56m, up 12% on the year before."Art school teaches you that galleries are where you have to be. Galleries told me that I would never make it so I started to think; how could I build my own empire?" she says.The company now runs 80 to 100 online-only auctions a year, but Mr Sands points out that not all types of art sell well online.To artists who say online platforms are the future, Catto Gallery's Iain Barratt has a rather bleak response: "Good luck to you. Where will you be in 30 years time? We've had a 20-year relationship with some of our artists here."Ashley started using social media - Facebook, Instagram and others - to showcase her art and attract new buyers. Selling direct cuts out the middleman and puts artists back in control, she says."A lot of social media is just noise. Our artists are on Instagram but they're followed by other artists most of the time, not clients," he says.But from her studio in California, Ashley Longshore has little time for that sort of opinion."We want elements of their audience and they need the supply of art. This sort of model could be the future," he says.