News reports suggest much of this was contaminated by other rubbish, and had to be burned.Send us your questionsSo at first sight it makes sense to harness that by burning it in an incinerator to make electricity.Since China refused last month to accept any more foreign waste for recycling, the UK is facing a challenge. How can it recycle more of its own waste? And should it bury or burn the low-grade waste that it can't recycle?It's even more efficient if the incinerator can capture the waste heat from the process and use it to warm offices and homes.Dominic Hogg from Eunomia told BBC News: "When coal is phased out for generating electricity, incineration of unrecycled waste will be the most CO2-intensive form of generation. His argument is supported by the people who run incineration - the Environmental Services Association (ESA).Elena Polisano, Oceans Campaigner for Greenpeace UK reluctantly agrees. She told BBC News: "We should reduce, reuse, and recycle, in that order.So should we burn our hard-to-recycle waste, or bury it?Burying plastic would have the same effect of locking up unwanted carbon at a fraction of the cost.Remember, this is packaging, not all plastic waste. The government seems to have been persuaded by this argument. The environment minister Therese Coffey told the Commons: "In environmental terms, it is generally better to bury plastic than to burn it." Plastic is made from oil and gas, and it creates a lot of heat when it's burned.Governments have been promising for decades to develop plants that will capture the carbon emissions from power stations and force them into underground rocks.Indeed we could go one step further and make the case that burying waste plastic in landfill is actually a cheap form of carbon capture and storage."This doesn't make sense if the government's trying to reduce CO2 emissions - unless the government takes drastic action to reduce the amount of plastic in unrecycled waste."He quotes the government's Digest of UK Energy Statistics (DUKES) saying that in 2016, the waste used to fuel Energy from Waste (EfW) was equivalent to replacing 2.5m tonnes of virgin fossil fuel oil. Environment groups also fear that if the UK builds new incinerators to cope with the stockpile created by China's rejection of waste plastic, the policy will lock in a demand for burning waste plastic that ideally should get recycled.Well, according to the HMRC's UK trade info website, about 800,000 tonnes of plastic waste was exported from the UK for recycling to nations like China in 2014. The consultancy Eunomia says plastics burned in incinerators set up to generate only electricity create heat at 25% efficiency. This is much lower than the 55% efficiency for new gas-fired power stations.Follow us on TwitterSo what are the facts about plastic waste?The question may seem rather academic. But it is highly pertinent for a government whose environment secretary is preparing a new plan for waste - and who has stated that the UK must "stop offshoring our dirt"."When we get to the stage of deciding whether to burn or bury waste, we have already failed, failed some more and then failed again.We're trying to answer the second question. And it certainly divides opinions. Its director Jacob Hayler told us: "It is better to recover energy from non-recyclable waste through (incineration), than send it to landfill."Burning plastic this way currently substitutes in some places for burning dirty fossil fuels like oil or coal.But this doesn't apply to plastics, which are extremely stable. They don't break down in landfill, so don't emit greenhouse gases.Burning plastic creates harmful dioxins and if incinerators are inefficient, these leak into the environment. Modern incinerators are said to have largely solved this problem.He told the Commons: "Waste is used to generate the heat that enables the cement company based in my constituency to manufacture cement."However, it is safer to contain that failure than to spread it through the atmosphere in the form of toxic gases."But climate change is another consideration.Because those statistics are based on the incineration of general waste including plastics - not of plastic waste alone.Much of our household waste in landfills does indeed create greenhouse gases that heat the world, unless they are captured as landfill gas.Mr Hayler says that overall greenhouse gas emissions from incineration are lower than from landfill. Here's the case for burning.So it seems there's a strong case for incineration - but it's not quite that simple.Roger Harrabin reports on waste for Radio 4s' PM programme throughout the week.Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabinThe UK itself was left with 1,244,774 tonnes of packaging sent either to landfill or incineration in 2016. The National Packaging Waste Database estimates that 1,015,226 tonnes of plastics packaging was recycled in 2016.Mark Pawsey, the Conservative MP for Rugby, is chairman of the All-Party Group for the Packaging Manufacturing Industry.Read more from Reality Check"That strikes me as a much better use of the calorific value of packaging than sending it to landfill."And, in fact, there's a strong case against incinerating plastics.