"I made Kiki around the same age as my daughter was at that time, just between childhood and adulthood," Ms Kadono said, according to the Asahi Shimbun. "I had no idea I could have [such an award]," Ms Kadono said at the award reception. The series starts with 13-year-old Kiki as she sets out on a year-long apprenticeship for witches in training, and follows her as she tries to find her place in the world despite various setbacks and struggles. The rest of the series chronicles Kiki as she grows into a young adult and eventually, a mother of two. "I was more a reader than a writer. [But] after trial and error, I realised I loved writing," she told Japanese media at a recent press conference. "The raison d'etre of children's literature is giving strength of confidence to children, [enabling them] to become mature."She has published close to 200 original works, including picture books, stories for young adults and essay anthologies. But her most famous work is undoubtedly Kiki's Delivery Service. After the war was over, she attended university in Japan before emigrating to Brazil for a few years."[And as] you read and read, you create your own dictionary in you. And those words will be your strength through your life."The jury described the "ineffable charm" of Ms Kadono's picture books and novels, deeply rooted in Japan.Last month the 83-year-old was awarded the 2018 Hans Christian Andersen Award, sometimes called the Little Nobel Prize for Literature. But what is it about the book that has made it so loved?"It is such an honour... being read by many people, all over the world."The biennial award is presented to an author whose "complete works have made an important, lasting contribution to children's literature."Originally published in 1985, the story revolves around Kiki, a young witch who travels around on her broomstick with her black cat Jiji. "Kiki's Delivery Service makes children believe that everyone has [their] own magic," Tomoko Honobe, Ms Kadono's editor, told the BBC.She was inspired to write her most famous series - Kiki's Delivery Service or Majo no Takkyubin in Japanese - after her young daughter drew a picture of a witch with musical notes flying around it. And Ms Kadono seems to have some magic of her own. Born in Tokyo, Ms Kadono was evacuated from her home at age ten and sent to northern Japan during World War Two. "It's all about this kid getting to fly with her own magic."Last month Ms Kadono found out she had won the Hans Christian Andersen Award, given by the International Board on Books for Young People. It was later adapted into a film by iconic director Hayao Miyazaki of Japanese animation house Studio Ghibli. The movie became one of Mr Miyazaki's most popular films. Some of her works, including Forest of Tunnel and Brazil and My Friend Luizinho, were inspired by her wartime experiences and years in Brazil.Yet the acclaimed author says her stories do not belong to her, but rather, her readers. Nearly 1.7 million copies of the books have been sold in Japan alone, and the series has been translated into nine languages.The author describes herself as a "late bloomer", owing to the fact that she was 35 when her first book came out. "The significance of storytelling is, once it is handed to readers, it becomes theirs," said Ms Kadono. "She's just like a good witch, who has all these charms. She is mischievous, chatty, energetic and young," said Ms Honobe. "I have to work really hard to keep up with her energy."Reporting by the BBC's Sakiko Shiraishi and Yvette Tan"I decided to write throughout my life, even if my works would not be published."