"There's also intrigue, suspense and mystery solving en route. But in the end, right wins out. There's some comfort in that. Those sorts of stories tax your brain a bit but they're not miserablist. In the end they make you feel better."Source: Nielsen Bookscan"People have got sucked into these stories which are told from the first person, usually, and often with an unreliable narrator. It immerses you straight into someone's psyche rather than seeing them from the outside," she said.The former police officer's 2014 debut I Let You Go, which starts when a boy slips out of his mother's grasp and runs into the road - and is knocked down by a hit-and-run driver - was a huge success. Her second book I See You arrived in 2016.Overall, Child topped the UK crime sales chart in 2017, selling 1.2 million books worth 7.5m - followed by Patterson and Brown.The rise has been fuelled by the growth of psychological thrillers and the success of big names like Lee Child, James Patterson and Dan Brown.2017 UK sales: 233,719.Julia Wisdom, crime and thriller publisher for HarperCollins, said the rise in sales of crime fiction was mostly down to the "phenomenal popularity" of psychological thrillers."They often don't have very complicated plots but it's all about the build-up of suspense and fear, and you have to be completely immersed in the voice."2017 UK sales: 135,459.They overtook sales for general and literary fiction, which were down 16%.And people "still take comfort from crime novels where bad is punished and good comes through in the end", she said.Paula Hawkins, whose 2015 novel The Girl on the Train led the recent wave of psychological thrillers, was in fourth place after publishing her follow-up Into the Water.Relative newcomer Shari Lapena is among the female authors to enjoy the boom. Her book The Couple Next Door was the bestselling novel in the genre last year.Last year, 18.7 million crime books were sold - 19% more than in 2015, data company Nielsen Bookscan says.She's one of a number of authors who have enjoyed recent success with intense personal stories centred on troubled female characters. They include:A Canadian author who switched from comedy to thrillers with 2016's The Couple Next Door, about Anne and Marco whose baby goes missing while they're having dinner with neighbours. Her follow-up, A Stranger in the House, came out last year.2017 UK sales: 445,005."There is a rise in these domestic noir novels, where it's pretty much ordinary people caught in these extraordinary situations. So the reader goes, well, that could be me."He told BBC News: "Crime tells us a lot about our society, it tells us a lot about ourselves as human beings... All we human beings are capable of doing good, but we're also capable of doing terrible things to each other.Crime author Ian Rankin said that as well as having fascinating characters and gripping stories, crime fiction can show us "the darker side of ourselves".After establishing herself as a fantasy author (and screenwriter for the BBC's Torchwood), Pinborough switched to psychological thrillers. The twist-tastic Behind Her Eyes took her career to the next level at the start of 2017.Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.Wisdom, who is also on the programming committee for the annual Theakston Old Peculier Crime Writing Festival, which takes place in Harrogate in July, said big names like Lee Child and David Baldacci "just get bigger and bigger".