Statement from R. Lee Ermey's long time manager, Bill Rogin:It is with deep sadness that I regret to inform you all that R. Lee Ermey ("The Gunny") passed away this morning from complications of pneumonia. He will be greatly missed by all of us.Semper Fi, Gunny. Godspeed. pic.twitter.com/vf4O78JKmbA post shared by  Donald Trump Jr. (@donaldjtrumpjr) on Apr 15, 2018 at 3:54pm PDT"Gunnery Sergeant Hartman of Full Metal Jacket fame was a hard and principled man," he wrote. "The real R Lee Ermey was a family man, and a kind and gentle soul."He also quoted lines from Dylan Thomas' poem Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.D'Onofrio, who played Private Pyle, called Ermey "the real deal"."He will be greatly missed by all of us," the message read. "Semper Fi, Gunny. Godspeed."One popular story about Ermey is that he was initially hired as a technical advisor, but Kubrick was so impressed with his demonstration of a drill instructor's role that he was offered the part.Ermey later drew on his military experience for his breakout role in Stanley Kubrick's 1987 film Full Metal Jacket, winning a Golden Globe nomination for his portrayal of a hardened drill instructor putting young marine corps recruits through basic training."And I love sunshine, I don't know about you."Ermey was the real deal. The knowledge of him passing brings  back wonderful memories of our time together. @RLeeErmey @StanleyKubrick @FMJDiary @MatthewModine @AdamBaldwin pic.twitter.com/XgsItiMqCPIn a 2010 interview with the Civilian Marksmanship Programme magazine, Ermey recalled being a "troublemaker and a bit of a hell-raiser" in his youth - eventually ending up in court."There's no doubt his Marine Corp training benefited him with his second career as an actor," wrote Modine, who played Private James T. 'Joker' Davis in the film.In a post on Facebook - since made inaccessible - his manager Bill Rogin said: "It is extremely difficult to truly quantify all of the great things this man has selflessly done for, and on behalf of, our many men and women in uniform. Ermey's Full Metal Jacket co-stars Matthew Modine and Vincent D'Onofrio were among those to pay tribute to the actor.He was a board member of powerful US gun lobby group the National Rifle Association (NRA).#SemperFidelis Always faithful. Always loyal. Do not go gentle into that good night.Rage, rage against the dying of the light.RIP amigo. PVT. Joker #FullMetalJacket @RLeeErmey @StanleyKubrick @vincentdonofrio @ViKu1111 pic.twitter.com/AYbWQmLxy1Ermey's manager, posting to the actor's Twitter account, said he died from "complications of pneumonia".The former US Marine turned award-winning actor played a host of military men during his career.Modine used the motto of the US Marine Corps 'Semper Fidelis' - meaning always faithful or always loyal - in his Twitter tribute."Basically a silver-haired judge...  gave me a choice. He said I could either go into the military - any branch I wanted to go to - or he was going to send me where the sun never shines," he told the magazine.Born in 1944 in Kansas, Ermey was a staff sergeant in the marine corps in the 1960s and early 1970s, serving tours in Japan and Vietnam. He also served as a real-life drill instructor.Donald Trump Jr posted a long tribute to the actor, saying he was "proud to have had R Lee Ermey as a friend", calling him "a legend and a great American". Well today we lost a legend and a great American. I am proud to have had R. Lee Ermey as a friend and shooting teammate.  If you thought he was motivating in Full Metal Jacket you should have seen him on the firing line when points mattered. Ill never forget those moments just not sure I can relay them fully here... just take my word for it LEGENDARY!!! (I wish I filmed his reaction to me bringing a pink gun to shoot in a match see pic 2. He was having none of my it takes a real man to shoot a pink gun line. I made it just for that response and he did not disappoint.) They unfortunately dont make many like him these days. Thanks for your friendship sir.  Rest In Peace Gunny!!! #gunny #ermey #rip #semperfiIn a second tweet, he thanked the marines for helping the actor become "the outstanding person he was. Hard working. Disciplined. Focused. Never complaining."Ermey played many military and police roles on film and television. He featured in Francis Ford Coppola's Apocalypse Now and lent his distinctive voice to animated characters, such as the plastic toy soldier in Pixar's Toy Story films. Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.