"I think PE is one of those subjects which can really lend itself to developing resilience, developing the grit, the determination, the will to succeed and the coping when that goes wrong," says Ms Curling."About 30% of boys don't enjoy or look forward to physical activity," she says, quoting a survey published by the charity last year. The aim is for pupils to feel both supported and challenged. Ms Oliver says Youth Sport Trust is working on a boys' programme to do the same job for less active boys that initiatives like Girls Active and This Girl Can already do for girls, instilling a love of being active and healthy, making it fun and relevant, helping them set goals, take ownership of their progress and motivate others. She says the girls' programme came first because their PE problems are greater: "We had to prioritise girls... but there is an issue with boys as well.""A lot of boys get turned off from PE because they don't want to be picked last for teams. They don't want to be put in a public display to fail.Grouping by ability allows less sporty boys to be competitive at their own level.They rarely get the ball and when they do they often mess up through nerves.Boys like Dan and Olly are a significant and worrying minority, according to Youth Sport Trust chief executive Ali Oliver.  "It just wasn't fun any more. It was just annoying. They wouldn't really play, they just wanted to win.The pair say they liked PE when they were younger, before some of their classmates got ultra-competitive. Clare Curling, head of PE at the school with the hardy table tennis players, began an overhaul of the subject two years ago.So PE teaching at Bishop Ramsay has been "flipped". "Like any other subject," says Ms Curling. "So if we can create a system that's a bit more inclusive for the students and can involve them, then great." And there's a box of spare PE kit for pupils who forget theirs. Dan is 16 and he hates PE. "They leave out the people they think are useless and they underestimate people."They still teach the basics, like catching and football, but lessons also focus on developing characteristics like communication, co-operation, integrity, respect and fair play - crucial to sport and essential in life."What's the point of standing on a field for an hour or two hours each week?"PE, as a core subject, is on the timetable for all pupils up to and including the year they turn 16, and at her school, Bishop Ramsay in Hillingdon, west London, that means about 540 hours over five years.  "We started questioning why we were doing the activities we were doing, what was the purpose for it and what were the students going to gain from participating in it?For Dan and fellow PE refusenik Olly, football is a particular torture. "They hog the ball and I can't really get involved. So I just hang around having a conversation," says Olly.  A poll of pupils resulted in the introduction of new sports like boxercise and parkour, basketball courts and table-tennis tables being open during breaks and an array of all-ability clubs, with girls and boys regularly playing together.These very different views sum up why some teachers believe PE is ripe for reform. She says that in popular sports, like football, some boys become very skilled, leaving others, like Dan and Olly, with no chance of touching the ball.Among boys aged 14-16, fewer than half (47%) consider PE skills relevant to their daily lives, and overall, only 16% of boys do the 60 minutes of exercise a day recommended by the government's chief medical officer. Some names have been changed."It's quite a lot of tactics. It's like tennis but on a little scale. So you think things through," said James.  "If we got them more healthily engaged in sport, we could help them in the classroom and with their health and wellbeing, which would be fantastic.""A lot of the stuff you do in Girls Active is transferable to the boys anyway. It's just looking at what it is to market things for boys."It would feel really weird not doing PE," says table-tennis player Andrew. By contrast, Liam and James, both 12, were keen enough to be playing table tennis in shorts and T-shirts outside on one of the coldest days of the year. "It's healthy to be challenged a little bit. It's not over the top, where it becomes too much, but enough that you can grow and progress," adds Malachi."We're not expecting to create the next greatest footballers - though that may happen for some of our students - but we want everybody to feel that they can perform at their best."Dan adds: "They are some of the most popular people in our year. They seem to be really aggressive and competitive. She believes there is plenty of potential for a "Boys Active" programme.  The change may have come too late for older boys like Dan and Olly but Ms Curling says it's working lower down the school, with fewer pupils standing around during PE lessons and more taking the GCSE.