Her father became the lead plaintiff in a case by families that argued that the idea of "separate but equal" violated African-American civil rights. Jeff Colyer, Governor for Kansas, paid tribute to Ms Brown in a tweet."Linda Brown's life reminds us that sometimes the most unlikely people can have an incredible impact and that by serving our community we can truly change the world," he said.The NAACP case was led by lawyer Thurgood Marshall, who would later become the first black Supreme Court justice. As an African-American child, Ms Brown was barred from attending an elementary school in Topeka, Kansas in 1951. In adulthood Ms Brown spoke about the difficulties of national attention so young, but continued to challenge segregation in schools into later life. In a tweet, the NAACP called her "a hero for our nation".We want to remember Linda Brown, the woman at the center of the Brown v. Board of Education U.S. Supreme Court Case. Thecourts landmark ruling in 1954 led to the desegregation of the US education system. #womenshistorymonth pic.twitter.com/2nWaBcUBk2In 1954 the court unanimously ruled that segregated schools were "inherently unequal" and had a "detrimental effect" on African-American children. The decision was met with resistance and change did not happen everywhere immediately.In some states, local authorities refused to comply, which led to public confrontations such as in Little Rock, Arkansas. They hoped to overturn the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson ruling which legally sanctioned the idea of racially segregated facilities. Civil rights activists argued that it was discriminatory because African-American schools often had poorer facilities. Despite living just a few streets away from Sumner Elementary School, Linda was turned away and told to enrol in African-American school, two miles away. As a nine-year-old, it meant crossing train tracks and getting a bus alone. The case was initially struck down, but he later joined a national legal challenge by the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People (NAACP) on behalf of families from several states.In a 1985 interview Ms Brown said her father took up the challenge because he "felt that it was wrong for black people to have to accept second-class citizenship". Her father, Oliver Brown, became one of 13 plaintiffs to bring a lawsuit against the Topeka Board of Education. The Brown decision made America a beacon of hope to the rest of the world; it taught us that we could, through the rule of law, end a kind of oppression and race-based caste system.Today we honor Linda Brown and all the fights we have left to win. https://t.co/roxvyVEMibThe 1954 Brown vs. Board of Education Supreme Court ruling struck down legal segregation in US schools.