The government's sugar tax on sweetened drinks will come into effect on Friday. There were almost 617,000 appointments in 2016-17 where obesity was either a primary or secondary diagnosis - up from 292,000 in 2012-13.A secondary diagnosis of obesity means it would not be the reason for the admission but a factor that may contribute to the health issue and affect the type of care a patient receives. The Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health said the figures showed the "urgency" that was needed to tackle obesity in childhood."Our own sugar restrictions, the new sugar tax and the NHS diabetes prevention programme are all part of what needs to be a concerted effort to address obesity."But the gap among year six children has grown by more, from 8.5% to 15%.Primary diagnoses involve weight-loss treatment, while secondary ones include hip problems and heart attacks."It's taken many years for levels of obesity to reach this point and change will not happen overnight," he said. "The increase in hospital admissions directly attributed to obesity is an indicator that this impact is already being seen."NHS Digital's annual study also highlighted a growing obesity divide between children living in the poorest and richest areas.Professor Louis Levy, head of nutrition science for Public Health England, said the figures showed obesity remained a "significant challenge" across England.Those aged between 35 and 64 made up 69% of the admissions.  Its president, Prof Russell Viner, said: "We know that obese children are likely to go on to be obese in adulthood, which can result in serious conditions such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. The gap in the percentage of these children who are obese at reception age has increased from 4.5 to 6.8% since 2007-8. Women accounted for 66% of all obesity-related appointments and 77% of bariatric surgeries. The report also found:Public Health England said it showed obesity was a "significant challenge". Obesity was the main cause of 10,705 admissions - an 8% increase on the year before - and bariatric surgery appointments increased by 5% to 6,760 over the same period.Obesity is linked to a range of health problems, including heart disease, diabetes and cancer. NHS Digital said it was possible that some of the increase in obesity-related admissions may be down to better recording of obesity by doctors on patient notes.Professor Jonathan Valabhji, national clinical director for diabetes and obesity at NHS England, said: "We have been clear that the growing obesity crisis sweeping the country is a public health crisis and the evidence backs it up. 