The condition increases the risk of bowel and other cancers. Source: Macmillan Cancer Support and Bowel Cancer UK"Unfortunately, three of my siblings have since tested positive with the genetic condition. Lynch syndrome is very scary due to the fact that tumours can grow more rapidly.Deborah Alsina, chief executive of Bowel Cancer UK and Beating Bowel Cancer, said: "The price of testing for Lynch syndrome is peanuts - only 200 per patient. Clinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs) need to loosen the purse strings as the price of testing for Lynch syndrome far outweighs the cost of treating bowel cancer patients.Their campaign is being backed by TV presenter Matthew Wright, whose family has a history of bowel cancer. They said that 91% of those hospitals cited financial reasons as the main barrier and 61% said staff resources were a problem. "At the time of my father's death, my family and I were told about Lynch syndrome and the 50% chance that me and my sister could have it too. Although I was convinced I had it, it was only until five years after my father's death that I found out I didn't have Lynch syndrome," he said. One hospital trust said: "The main barriers have been, and remain, financial and staff resources.  NICE produce guidance but the government do not provide the funding for the implementation of the guidance.  It is a recurring theme and, with the increasing use of genomic medicine, is a major problem for pathology departments."An NHS England spokeswoman said: "There are clear NICE guidelines for when it's appropriate to test for Lynch syndrome that we expect NHS providers to follow but the quality of cancer care is always improving and the NHS is catching more cancers early with 7,000 more people surviving cancer compared to just three years ago.""It was for this reason that I opted for preventative surgery two years ago by having a full abdominal hysterectomy to rid the chance of me ever having an endometrial cancer. My sister also has Lynch syndrome and has been through the same preventative surgery." "We need to address this crisis of families not being tested for Lynch syndrome. We have the right to know if we have a higher risk of bowel cancer, the disease is deadly and it can't keep devastating families like mine."  Testing for the syndrome can guide the treatment of the patient and indicates whether their families are at risk. A Freedom of Information request by the charity found that 83% of NHS hospitals in England are not testing for the condition. When Stephen presented with similar symptoms he was told he was too young to get the disease, delaying his diagnosis for six months."The saddest thought for me is the fact that there's a 50/50 chance of my 10-year-old daughter having Lynch syndrome too. She will be tested when she reaches the age of maturity, as will my nephew and nieces. Teenage cancer fundraiser Stephen Sutton, who died of bowel cancer at 19, had Lynch syndrome. His father had twice battled bowel cancer. "But the major difference for them is that they will be screened and monitored from an early age. Unlike me, any symptoms they may be experiencing however young they are at the time, their GP will at least sit up and listen.Bowel Cancer UK estimates that 166,000 people in the UK are unaware that they have the condition.And if other family members find they have the syndrome then it enables them to take steps to reduce their risk of bowel cancer, or be diagnosed at an earlier stage when it is easier to treat.But the charity says the cost of the test is small compared to the cost of treating patients for bowel cancer, which they say is around 25,000.An NHS England spokeswoman said there are clear guidelines about when it is appropriate to test for Lynch syndrome. Children of people with the condition have a 50/50 chance of developing it.If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here. The charity says it is important to find out whether patients have Lynch syndrome, because some chemotherapy drugs are ineffective for them."A lack of funding and resources from CCGs means that hospitals' hands are tied. Until these issues are being addressed, generations of families will continue to be devastated by cancer and lives will be needlessly lost."Annika Perdomo, who is 53 and from Warwickshire, has Lynch syndrome - she was diagnosed with bowel cancer at the age of 49. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines recommend testing all bowel cancer patients for Lynch syndrome at the time of their diagnosis.