You should not need a physical examination.  If it has been some time since you were able to get or keep an erection, it may take a couple of attempts before you are able to achieve one. The drug relaxes the blood vessels in the penis to help blood flow and will help achieve an erection in response to sexual stimulation.Very common (may affect more than one in 10 people):Make sure you tell the pharmacists about any treatments you are taking so they can check it will be safe for you to also have Viagra Connect. Talk to your pharmacist or doctor if you think it is too strong - the drug's effects last too long or are too powerful. Do not take it with grapefruit or grapefruit juice, because this can affect how the medicine works.You can ask at the pharmacy counter for a quiet word or to have a conversation in a private room if they prefer - most pharmacies now have private consultation facilities.There is also a clash with a medicine called riociguat and an HIV medication called ritonavir. And do not take more than one 50mg tablet per day. You should take it about an hour before you plan to have sex.Health experts hope it will mean more men get help for erectile dysfunction - a condition thought to affect up to one in five adult men, 4.3 million in the UK. A packet of four pills will cost 19.99.Viagra Connect is only for men who have impotence. Stop taking the pills and seek immediate medical attention if you have a serious side-effect such as:Pharmacists should advise men to book a follow-up appointment with their doctor within six months of starting on Viagra Connect because erectile dysfunction can sometimes be a sign of other underlying conditions, including heart disease, high cholesterol and diabetes.No. You will need to ask the pharmacist for it, who will then check it is safe for you to take. As a rule of thumb, men who become very breathless or experience chest pain when doing light exercise, such as climbing two flights of stairs, should not take these pills.What should men consider before buying and trying the little blue pills?People on nitrate pills for angina should not take Viagra Connect. That also goes for people taking recreational poppers (amyl nitrite).And it will not be sold to men who are not medically fit enough to have sex. This includes men with severe heart or blood vessel problems. It can be taken with or without food, although it may take a little longer to start working if you have just had a big meal. Always check that the seller is reputable. Drugs from unregulated sellers may be fake, ineffective and unsafe. In many cases yes, but it is not effective for everyone. Prolonged and sometimes painful erections lasting longer than four hours have been occasionally reported by men taking the drug. GPs can prescribe it. And some pharmacies will be selling it online, after a virtual consultation. Like any medication though, the drug can cause side-effects and should not be misused or abused.No-one under the age of 18 can buy it, although women might be able to buy it on behalf of their partner if the pharmacist is satisfied it is appropriate to dispense it.The pharmacist will ask about symptoms, general health, and any other medications you might be taking. They should not ask personal questions about your sex life or sexual preferences. Although unlikely, if this does happen, seek immediate medical assistance. Common (may affect up to one in 10):Drinking lots of alcohol can also make it more difficult to get an erection.