"Presumably, they modify brain development in a very subtle manner improving the connection of neurons. This results in a cognitive advantage for the offspring," said Prof Andr Fischer from DZNE.Prof Marcus Pembrey, from Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, said the research was an "important step" in unravelling "what, if anything, contributes to an individual's intelligence beyond genetic inheritance and learning after birth". They also had improved synaptic plasticity - which is a measure of how well nerve cells communicate with each other and the cellular basis for learning. They found the benefits were conveyed through the RNA molecules that are contained in sperm, along with paternal DNA.  In a mouse study, researchers found the benefits gained from these activities were passed on to their offspring, despite not altering their DNA. The German study is being published in the journal Cell Reports.Researchers from the German Centre for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) found that when they exposed mice to a stimulating environment in which they also had plenty of exercise, their offspring which they had later also benefitted. He added: "If this system of the offspring inheriting a 'head start' applies to humans, it might help to explain the so-called Flynn effect, where the population IQ in industrial societies has risen every decade for the last century."The researchers say that whether their findings are translatable to people needs to be determined.This phenomenon is known as epigenetic inheritance.  Further research is needed to see if this replicates in humans.Prof Simon Fishel, of the private Care Fertility group, said it was a "fascinating study" providing "further increasing evidence of how we conduct our lives before we conceive our children may have consequences for our offspring". He said it "opens up further the enthralling study of a 'transgenerational inheritance' and added: "However, there is much work to do to understand if this study can not only be replicated in mice, but other mammalian species too, and ultimately in humans."Exercise is recommended to keep the mind sharp in the over-50s and doing puzzles and brain training exercises has been found to delay the onset of dementia and reduce the risk of diseases such as Alzheimer's. The younger mice achieved better results in tests that evaluated their learning ability than the control group. They found this in the hippocampus, the area of the brain that is important for learning. 