But despite humans being able to feel the burn from the chillies' capsaicin, nutritionist Will Hawkins from Push Doctor agrees with Dave that it's all an illusion. "It binds with pain receptors - the nerve endings in our bodies that sense pain - and although it can create a burning sensation, does not cause any burn injuries.""Entrants have traditionally been men but we have seen more women taking part recently.""The industry in the UK is catching up and there's plenty of chilli farms and chilli sauce producers in the UK now," Dave says. "We always have medics on hand should we have a negative reaction," Karl says. "Back stage we have full cream milk, yoghurt and sugar for the contestants. These all help to counter the heat effect of the chilli."But it can go wrong - as one man finds out after eating the world's hottest chilli, the Carolina reaper, and suffering from "thunderclap" headaches. "I was hospitalised for seven days unfortunately," he says.Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Chillies can actually help the body in a number of ways, Will says. Birds, unlike mammals, can't taste capsaicin - the chemical in chillies that make them hot for humans. "It does become almost sort of addictive in a way," says Chilli Dave, of the Clifton Chilli Club. It's the first time the headaches, which are caused by a sudden tightening of the vessels that supply blood to the brain, have been linked with chillies. The physical effects of eating peppers can be seen as reactions to what might be - from the body's perspective - real burns, Bruce Bryant, a biologist at the Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia told BBC Futures."Capsaicin is the main bioactive plant compound in chilli peppers, which can aid in the body's pain relief. He started off just taking part in chilli-eating competitions, but after winning a few with his friends they were asked to host a competition. And the Clifton Chilli Club, which has almost 150,000 subscribers on its YouTube channel, says the largest crowd it has ever held a competition in front of is 20,000. "With the really, really hot chillies, you get this lovely tingling, burning sensation, but it's actually not damaging you at all, it's all a trick of the mind," he says. Chilli Dave had a stomach ulcer he didn't know about and says his love of spicy food made that a lot worse. So why do people go red, start sweating and even vomit from eating chilli?"With the chilli-eating competition there is always more competitors - victims you may prefer - than there are seats," he says. Karl Muzio, from the Fiery Foods UK Festival, says his company's Brighton event is proving so popular this year that they'll hold three competitions over three days.But there's also a third category of people who seek out the hottest chillies around - and eat them in competitions. Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here."When you have a really cheeky one your endorphins kick off and you get a bit of an adrenaline rush," Chilli Dave says. They may be proving popular both in person and with videos online showing people's reactions to eating super spicy chillies, but there are still risks, which is why festivals take precautions. "So far the worst we have had is vomiting, increased heart rate and some cramping of the extremities. It helps ensure that chilli seeds are spread effectively - because birds aren't afraid to eat the plant.It can promote weight loss, by speeding up the body's metabolism, and can also reduce high blood pressure. 