"Thankfully the NHS worked amazingly well to get me out of hospital and back on my feet... I'm doing everything in my power to get myself better.""I last had a flare up about a year ago, and I was on prednisolone for six months. I put on two stone in that time."Dynamo, whose real name is Steven Frayne, posted a video on his social media accounts explaining he became "really sick" in 2017."I've been keeping a bit more of a low profile as I got really sick and ended up in hospital last summer due to a really bad type of food poisoning - which having Crohn's disease and food poisoning very bad combination," he said in the video.There's currently no cure, but treatments, such as steroids, can help alleviate the inflammation.It's a long-term health condition affecting any part of the digestive system, but usually the small or large intestine.Doctors do not know what causes it - the disease can flare up after even long periods of remission.A number of people coping with Crohn's pointed out weight gain, water retention and steroid rash as common side effects.But others shared their experiences of Crohn's disease and the corticosteroid drugs often used to treat the illness. "You feel like people are talking about you when the way you look changes. That makes you feel even worse than you already do." The bowel lining gets inflamed, causing symptoms that can include diarrhoea, abdominal pain and blood and mucus in your poo.Many commented on the magician's appearance, noting his weight gain. Kate told the BBC she instantly recognised the side effects of steroids and "knew exactly what the photo was all about". Frayne also thanked people for their "kind support," following a selfie he posted online on Monday evening showing the change in his appearance, including the extent of the rash on his head.Many others praised the performer for raising awareness of the illness, and admonishing those making unsupportive comments.  You may also like:By BBC health reporter Michelle RobertsThank you for all the kind support. Here's a little update on the situation. #roadtorecovery #iwillbeback pic.twitter.com/Qlh45ycKbwKate describes the side effects of the steroid treatments as "horrendous". It's thought about 115,000 people in the UK have Crohn's.By George Pierpoint, UGC and Social News Kate says a lack of understanding of Crohn's disease leads many people to make "vile" and offensive comments.  "We Crohn's sufferers call it 'Moonface'."You only understand the effect of the drug if you have Crohn's. Frayne said his medication regime since then has caused him to "put on quite a lot of body weight" and develop a rash. He said he is also unable to shuffle cards because his hands are in "so much pain" due to developing arthritis.Kate Clifton, from Nottingham, responded to the photograph to praise the "fantastic" Dynamo for raising awareness of the disease.I have been on steroids for probably a couple of years now. Every time I reduce down my Crohns flares. Thank you for raising awareness, and all the fat commenters should be absolutely ashamed.Hundreds of people suffering with Crohn's sent messages of support to Dynamo, who spoke to The Sun in December 2017 about living with the illness, after recognising the star's weight gain as a common side effect of medication.