But in recent months, some began to fear that this presence was starting to be curtailed by conservative forces.Last Friday the microblogging platform said that posts related to homosexuality would be taken down.As of early Monday morning many such posts were still online, as censors appeared to struggle to keep up with the deluge.Often described as China's answer to Twitter, Sina Weibo is one of the most popular social networks in the country."My son and I love our country... we are proud to be Chinese!" she said. "But today I saw the announcement by Sina Weibo...as a source of news, it is discriminating and attacking minorities, and this is violence!"Some tried testing the ban and uploaded pictures of themselves with partners or gay friends or relatives.Additional reporting by Gwyneth Ho.Sina Weibo said it was initiating the clean-up because of stricter internet laws put in place last year, but it did not explain why it was only acting now. Netizens cheered the reversal. "There is absolutely nothing wrong with being homosexual...we hope that Weibo will not perpetrate such discrimination in the future," said one user.Over the weekend many in the LGBT community took to the network to protest against the decision, using hashtags such as #IAmGay# and #ScumbagSinaHelloIAmGay#.There was no official reaction from the Chinese government to Sina Weibo's initial ban, nor to the subsequent reversal.Homosexuality was decriminalised more than two decades ago. Conservative attitudes still prevail in many parts of the country, but that has not stopped the LGBT community and activists from having a strong and vibrant presence.By early Monday morning, the most censored search term on Weibo was "homosexuality", according to censorship tracker FreeWeibo. Last Friday Sina Weibo made a surprise announcement that it was launching a "clean-up campaign"."We thank everyone for their discussion and suggestions," the company added.Chinese authorities have embarked on a campaign in recent years aimed at purging internet content that it deems inappropriate.It said that for the next three months, the platform would remove content including images, videos, text and cartoons that were related to pornography, violence, or homosexuality. "This is to further ensure a clear and harmonious society and environment," the network said in its statement, adding that it had already scrubbed more than 50,000 posts by then.The official Chinese government response has always been "neither supportive nor against" homosexuality, where it "does not promote" LGBT rights, activist Li Tingting told BBC Chinese.Some saw the Sina Weibo ban as part of a larger trend of sidelining the LGBT community, including a move last year by an official media watchdog that deemed homosexual content as "pornographic and vulgar".Another widely-shared post was of an undated video showing a social experiment where gay volunteers stood in the street inviting passers-by to hug them. The poster claimed the original video had been taken down, and said "today I couldn't help myself but post this again". Among them was LGBT rights activist Pu Chunmei, whose impassioned post accompanied with pictures of her with her gay son quickly went viral.It prompted a deluge of posts from outraged netizens protesting against the decision. On Monday, Sina Weibo said it would reverse the ban.Then Sina Weibo made another announcement: it said its clean-up would "no longer apply to homosexual content". 