She added "Platforms like Twitter have to do more to tackle the problem, there's no doubt of that. "There were a lot of very positive responses to the tweet but there were also a number of very abusive messages." "No one should have to tolerate it."Listening to @carlalockhart, well done to you for speaking out...Abusive, nasty or disrespectful comments towards anyone on social media are totally unacceptable.  No one should have to tolerate it. All should be reported to PSNI and to the Social Media platform.Relaxing with this one at the Erne West DUP Dinner #eatingagain!! pic.twitter.com/nxDaWY5uX1Sinn Fin's deputy leader Michelle O'Neill tweeted her support for Ms Lockhart.She said: "We need to get our police and our social media outlets working together to tackle this and to bring people to task for what they're doing," she said.She said: "Abusive, nasty or disrespectful comments towards anyone on social media are totally unacceptable."I am more than open to people debating about political beliefs and policy but these were very personal.  We all have features that we would maybe change. The tweet which prompted the online abuse at the weekend was a picture posted of Ms Lockhart and Arlene Foster at a DUP event in Fermanagh on Friday night. Ms Lockhart received support too from the Ulster Unionist Party leader Robin Swann who tweeted that anonymous accounts were encouraging "trolls".Carla Lockhart said the comments were aimed at her and party leader Arlene Foster. The Upper Bann MLA said female politicians in other parties have also been targeted and the abuse needs to stop."At the dinner, Arlene posted a picture of the two of us," said Ms Lockhart."There's much more can be done to verify accounts.""We all look at ourselves in the mirror in the morning and maybe think if we looked slightly different, it would be wonderful, but it doesn't give anyone the right to pass comment on them."Ms Lockhart was at a DUP event on Friday where she had a photo taken with Mrs Foster."This is bullying. It's harassment of women in political life.