But it wasn't just Mark Zuckerberg that people were paying attention to. The Facebook founder was under a lot of scrutiny - check out all these photographers - so feeling some pressure is understandable.  Mr. Zuckerberg, I have just one question about Facebook: Where do I find my Hotmail?" pic.twitter.com/51f5cxnJiqThe billionaire's sometimes awkward appearance in front of the senators didn't go unnoticed.Mr. Zuckerberg, a magazine i recently opened came with a floppy disk offering me 30 free hours of something called America On-Line. Is that the same as Facebook? pic.twitter.com/U7pqpUhEhQAt one stage, Mark was asked whether Facebook could see "emails" sent over WhatsApp - while Senator Orrin Hatch asked how Facebook can "sustain a business model in which users don't pay for your service?"But the senators gave as good as they got - which saw Illinois' Dick Durbin receiving lots of love for his question to the CEO.when everything's fine and you feel great pic.twitter.com/d8wenWQfd5And, of course, it was something that was picked up on by social media.Follow Newsbeat on Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Mark Zuckerbergs manner has always reminded me of someone, but I could never quite grasp hold of it. Just now it hit me, watching him testify about data. pic.twitter.com/4Zs2eGlsHDtfw you aren't being grilled by the Senate Judiciary Committee pic.twitter.com/0gbOmDtJq8It made people think about just how lucky some of them are. "Mr Zuckerberg, would you be comfortable sharing with us the name of the hotel you stayed in last night?" he asked. The Social Network 2: This time its personal (data)When Mark said "no", he replied: "I think that may be what this is all about. Your right to privacy."ZUCKERBERG: im ready to answer any questions u might have about facebook84-YEAR-OLD SENATOR: excellent. mr zuckerberg my farmville farm needs more pigs but i cannot figure out where to purchase themMark Zuckerberg is now living out every young person's worst nightmare: trying to explain how tech stuff works to the nation's elderlyBy the time of the hearing's first break, Facebook's share price had risen by 5% - adding 3bn to his net worth. Mark Zuckerberg in 2016: "Personally I think the idea that fake news on Facebook ... influenced the election in any way is a pretty crazy idea"Mark Zuckerberg in 2018: pic.twitter.com/FoC2qXsAGT"Mr. Zuckerberg, can you change Snapchat back? My granddaughter won't stop complaining about it. Also, what is a Snapchat?" pic.twitter.com/36uy3ZYFXoThe Facebook CEO's at-times awkwardness saw him being compared to Star Trek's Data - an android who struggles with human behaviour and emotions.   It was no doubt a stressful day for Mark Zuckerberg, but it wasn't all terrible for the CEO. Many noted that the Facebook boss was living through a lot of people's "worst nightmare" live on TV. me when I realize my actions have a consequence pic.twitter.com/kNx4rL2uGl"Senator, we run ads," was the Facebook boss' response. "Senator, we run ads" is my new T-shirt.Listen to Newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on BBC Radio 1 and 1Xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here.The senators, who were grilling Mark about Facebook's role in the Cambridge Analytica data scandal, also opened themselves up to ridicule - with some pretty unbelievable questions. "don't forget to drink the water, humans like water" pic.twitter.com/RyhWE74Sl4Plenty of the jokes about the hearing had to do with The Social Network - the 2010 film which told the story of Facebook's creation. It was a rare moment when the senators, who had an average age of 62 according to Vox, weren't being mocked. 