But he added: "Our work with the special counsel is confidential and I want to make sure that in an open session I'm not revealing something that's confidential."By the first break in proceedings, Facebook's share price had risen by almost 5%, as markets reacted favourably to Mr Zuckerberg's performance, increasing his net worth by an estimated $3bn.The news that a personality quiz developed by an academic, Aleksandr Kogan, had collected data not just from the people who used it but also from their Facebook friends was revealed by newspaper investigations. Mr Kogan then sold the data to Cambridge Analytica.Zuckerberg says that Facebook has been served with subpoenas by special counsel Mueller's office - but then backs off and says that Facebook is "working with them", including meetings.During the hearing, Mr Zuckerberg also said:In February, Mr Mueller's office charged 13 Russians with interference in the 2016 election, along with three Russian companies. The Facebook chief fended off questions from senators about how the social network might be regulated more closely. But it says none of the data involved in the recent scandal was used to help the Trump campaign.Both companies also say they moved to have the data deleted once they learned of the problem in 2015.He was appearing in front of a joint session of several US senate committees, after it was revealed in recent weeks that about 87 million people had their profile information accessed by marketing firm Cambridge Analytica.One was the Internet Research Agency, sometimes referred to as a "Russian troll farm", which the indictment said had a "strategic goal to sow discord in the US political system".Mr Zuckerberg was answering questions in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data collection scandal.Cambridge Analytica, meanwhile, claims it did not know the information had been obtained improperly. During Mr Zuckerberg's appearance, the firm tweeted it was "advising" news media - through its lawyers - about coverage.The company is best known for its association with Donald Trump's 2016 election campaign, and has claimed it played "an integral part" in Mr Trump's victory. He also revealed Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election, had interviewed Facebook staff.Senator John Kennedy warned him: "I don't want to have to vote to regulate Facebook. But by God, I will. That depends on you... Your user agreement sucks.""This is an arms race. They're going to keep getting better," he said.Both companies lay the blame on Mr Kogan. Facebook says that although users gave permission to Mr Kogan's app to collect their information, selling it on was against the terms of service. "There are people in Russia whose job it is to try to exploit our systems and other internet systems and other systems as well. We need to invest in getting better at this too."Mr Zuckerberg said he has not been among those interviewed by Mr Mueller's office.When pressed, the 33-year-old billionaire tech titan said he would welcome regulation, if it was the "right regulation," though he avoided specifics.Hours ahead of the congressional hearing, Facebook also revealed that private messages from some 1,500 users were included in the data collection.Mr Zuckerberg said the company was now developing new tools to identify fake accounts.We have instructed our lawyers to send letters to news media who have been covering this story, advising them not to repeat false and unfounded allegations as fact.